Let's start by looking at loops that repeat for a defined number of repetitions or iterations.
These are known as four loops.
Suppose I have this list called names and I want to print hello for each one of its elements.
Here the command is as follows for each item it names print.
Hello.
This would be the command if we had to write in plain English.
Now we are going to transform it into a python line with the appropriate syntax.
We just delete that each and add a colon after names.
Now we have four item in names, which is the name of the list colon and underneath with the proper
tabulation.
This is important.
I write the code that I want to be repeated.
For example, print.
Hello.
Notice that here it says item.
But we could have chose any word like element or MN or whatever because this is actually an internal
variable and only serves to refer to each element that exists in my iterable object list.
Then if my list has five elements, my loop will repeat five times.
So what this code is going to do is iterate or loop through each name of my list, and for each name
it is going to perform an execution of the print code.
So in this case, the result will be five times the word hello.
But the best thing here is that in each iteration of the loop, the variable item or element or whatever
you've called it will contain the object of the list for that iteration as value.
Therefore, you can use that variable so that each repetition of the loop has some sort of variation.
For example, if in the print command we concatenate the word hello with the content of the item variable,
it will result in each print containing a different name of the list because when the loop made the
first round, the value of item was equal to the first element of the list.
In the second round it was equal to the second and so on.
Isn't this great?
The for loop offers so many possibilities, so we better see it in action right now.
And that's what we're going to do.
We're going to see the loop in action.
And in order to do that, we're going to create a list because we need an iterable object to step through
each of its elements.
So my list is going to have three elements.
It's going to have A, B, and C, and that's going to be enough.
Well, now comes the first loop that we're going to create.
We declare it as four.
So we're saying for each letter in list colon, and then we hit enter in the keyboard, it generates
the needed indentation and here we should write the command.
We want it to execute as much times as letters are in my list.
So we want to print.
Then we're using the same internal variable letter to ask it to print that letter.
So if I run this choosing the file name, it's going to print the three lines, because in the first
loop it went through the first object in my list and printed the letter A in the second loop.
It went through the letter B and printed that object which is loaded here in the variable letter at
the time of the second loop and in the third loop it printed the C and then stopped.
It did as many loops as it needed to.
If I'd had a fourth element here, let's call it Letter D, and I ran this again and I was going to
do four loops to go through each of my objects and so print them all.
And this I can also concatenate strings.
For example, here it will say in quotes the word letter, colon space.
And then there we concatenate with the value of letter.
So here we have some kind of sentence letter A, letter B, letter C and letter D.
As I was saying, these variables could be any word I put letter because it is meaningful, because
we have to try and make it readable so that a letter can come and say, ah, for each letter in the
list, blah, blah, blah, and we can understand it.
But if I wanted to here, I could have said L, and the only thing that matters here is that I also
put L and it will work the same way.
It could even say, I don't know, dinosaur.
The important thing is that here also says dinosaur.
Otherwise it will give you an error with dinosaur.
In both places it will work the same, but it will not be that readable.
And maybe something you might want to know about pie charm.
It has a big advantage if you select a variable and you want to change all the variables that are in
your code.
Here, I've just twice repeated the same variable you can right click come to refactor.
Choose rename and I'm going to put letter back in automatically.
When I choose refactor.
It changes all the instances where my variable appeared so that I don't have to change one by one.
Well, this still works.
I also want to show you that it is possible to get other aspects of our Iterable objects more than its
straight value.
For example, I can get its index then inside the for loop.
I'm going to create a variable that is called letter number and letter number is going to be equal to
list point index.
So it gives me back the index of which that moment is the letter by which I'm iterating.
This is going to return to the index.
So we're going to start with zero.
But I would like to count them starting from one so plus one.
Then here the phrase is going to say letter, and then we write a call to whatever there is in letter
number.
This is going to say the letter number X, and here we're going to put another call with letter.
If we print this out, see how fancy it looks now.
Now it says letter one a letter to be letter three C and each pass.
Letter number is also changing its value in the first part of the loop.
Letter number is equal to the index of the letter A, which is zero plus one.
That's why we have this one here.
And in the second loop we get two and so on.
So I hope you're understanding that this, although it may seem a little complex, is actually quite
simple.
The variables are changing on each turn of our loop.
So let's look at something a little different.
We're going to see many examples so that it's clear to you.
Let's now have a list that is equal to a series of names.
It can be Paul.
Then it's going to be Laura, and then it's going to be Freddie.
Why not?
Then we're going to have Louis.
And finally we're going to have Julia.
Well, here we have five names and I want to make a loop that makes a verification for each name in
the list.
Then it's going to be an F and we are combining for an F here.
So every time that makes a loop, it makes a verification.
And this if we'll check if the name begins with the letter L, for example, then I'm going to ask name
the instance that we're executing in each of the loops point and here we see the methods and we choose
the one called starts with which it is to check if it starts with a certain character.
And we're going to put here the L and the execution line will be print name.
Then it is not going to execute the print on each pass.
What it will do on each pass is checking if it fulfils the condition and only when it does.
Only then it is going to print name.
If I execute it, it will say Laura and Lewis.
The logic is as follows.
It went through Paul first.
It checked if the name Paul starts with a letter L and since it doesn't begin with L, it did not print
anything.
Then it went to the second loop.
It found Laura there, which does meet the condition.
So it printed this Laura we have here and it kept looping and looping, only printing those that met
the condition.
So that's how we combine loops and flow control and nicely.
So another thing that I could do here is to add, for example, the else statement which in case the
name does not begin with l it prints, for example, this name does not begin with l something very
simple, but it will allow you to see that it actually went through each of the names and according
to the condition is fulfilled or not, it printed one thing or the other.
So let's see another different example.
Let's create a list called numbers.
And Numbers is going to have, let's say, one, two, three, four and five.
That's enough.
This is going to be a little bit different.
So we're going to create another variable that's going to be called my value and I'm going to start
at zero.
Right now, this variable value is zero, but I'm going to set it up for a loop that says for every
number in numbers, this might be a little confusing, but pay attention to the correct variable.
Name number is something that I'm creating now, and it refers to every single element that is iterable
and this numbers is the name of my list.
So for each number in numbers, the variable, my value that is beginning to equal to zero is going
to become equal to its own value plus whatever number values at the moments of the loop.
Once this loop finishes, we're going to make that the value of my value is printed.
And if I do this, it's going to say 15.
Why?
Because it started at zero.
It went into the first loop where it took the value of one from the list.
This execution line overrides my value to become equal to zero plus one.
So now my value is one.
So in the second round, my value that was worth one became equal to one plus two, which is the second
number.
It became a three.
Then we add the three and three plus three is six, plus four is ten, plus five is 15, which is this
printed number at the end of the loop.
But the important thing to note here is that the print and here is the important thing to take care
about.
Indentation being at the same level as the four was only executed when the loop finished executing.
If I add another indentation here that puts the print statement at the same line where the lines inside
the loop start, then it is now inside the loop.
And look how different the execution is going to be.
So a lot of numbers were printed.
Why is why so?
Because now print will be executed in every single one of the iterations.
So it will show the value that my value has at the same time of every iteration.
So we can see in the first iteration was one, then three, then six, and so on, until it was equal
to 50.
Therefore, you must always pay attention to everything is in its place.
So let's look at one more thing.
Now let's create a variable called word.
This time it's going to be a string that says Python, for example.
And I have this word and I want to iterate over it so I can get every letter in word and I will print
that to the letter.
And this is easy to figure out because the strings, like the lists, are iterable objects.
That is to say that you can go through each one of their elements.
In this case, let me execute it.
Each one of their characters.
And then the way to do a different print every time.
Also note that you don't always need to have the variable separated.
Let's eliminate this variable.
And I could just say python as the object to iterate and it's going to work exactly the same.
So so far we've seen lists and we've seen strings.
I could have the list right here directly.
One, two, three.
And this is going to work the same way.
This instead of being a list, this could be a table and it could also work the same.
I can iterate on a table.
I can also iterate on a list that contains lists.
Let's see.
Let's make a list that has a first one and a two.
Then has a second object, which is another list with three and four.
And then I'm going to have a third object, this list, which is going to be another list with numbers
five and six.
So we're going to change the name here.
We're going to do it with the refactor.
This is not necessary in terms of execution, but we do it just for the sake of readability.
And we're going to put this time object and we refactor it.
So for each object in this list of lists, it is going to print the object.
What do we have here?
Well, the list that it is receiving, what if I want to print those objects in each list, the ones
that are one and two separately?
Well, here I have the chance to create two variables, let's say A and B, and then here I print A,
and then under here, always inside the loop, I print B, and now if I run this to your surprise,
one, two, three, four, five, six.
So what happened here in the first loop?
A was loaded with information, one and B was loaded with information two.
And so when we printed them, it printed both numbers.
Then it went to the second object, which is the second list, and repeated the process.
This way we're able to iterate inside a list that is inside another list.
If I eliminate the B, for example, I print only A and I get one, three, five, which are the A elements
for each sub list that we have here.
So how do we iterate into a dictionary?
Let's see.
We're going to create the dictionary called DIC and inside it we're going to create a key one that has
the letter A as its value.
Then a key to that as its value has a letter B and finally, you guessed it, a key three that has its
value a, c, and here we have a dictionary of three elements.
Well, now let's create a loop that for each item in dick prints the item.
Can you imagine what it's going to be printed?
Take a second, try to figure it out, and now print it out.
Well, it's printing only the keys.
It's printing the key objects within the key and value pair.
So what if I wanted to actually see the whole thing?
Well, here in Dick, I can put dot items.
Remember that we have the property that allows us to check the item and here it prints the complete
item key one a key to B and key three C.
Yes, I could have also wanted to see only the values and I can do that too.
I have a property for that and here I have only A, B and C.
So a different way to see the values would have been for me to create A and B as I did before with lists,
within lists, and I want to see A and B within items this time.
And here, what do we print, A and B, we're going to print both together.
And so I get key one, a key to B and key three C loops is also something that we're going to see very,
very frequently, not just in the course, but throughout your career as a programmer.
And you will learn them one way or the other because they're really useful and absolutely necessary.
So what we saw in this lecture is only the first part of the existing loops in Python.
The loop for in this loop you can pre define the number of iterations according to the object length.
So after we do the practical exercises in the next lecture, we'll move on to while loops are different
from the four loops and you're going to learn it there and you're going to love it.
See you there.